docs/getting-started/core-concepts/organizations.md, before:

---
title: "Organizations"
weight: 1
---

## What are Organizations?

Organizations are the top-level entities in Greenhouse. Each Organization gets a dedicated Namespace, that contains all resources bound to the Organization.
Greenhouse expects an Organization to provide it's own Identity Provider and currently supports _OIDC_ Identity Providers. Greenhouse also supports SCIM for syncing users and groups from an Identity Provider.

See [creating an Organization](./../../user-guides/organization/creation.md) for more details.

## Organization Namespace and Permissions

The Organization's Namespace in the Greenhouse cluster contains all resources bound to the Organization. This Namespace is automatically provisioned when a new Organization is created and shares the Organization's name.
Once the Namespace is created, Greenhouse will automatically seed RBAC [Roles](./../../../pkg/rbac/role.go) and [ClusterRoles](./../../../pkg/rbac/clusterrole.go) for the Organization. These are used to grant permissions for the Organization's resources to Teams.

- The Administrators of an Organization are specified via a identity provider (IDP) group during the creation of the Organization. Greenhouse automatically creates a Team called `<org-name>-admin`. This Team is also a [support group](teams.md#support-groups) and all alerts created by the Greenhouse controller are routed to this admin Team, if no other ownership is provided. See [operational processes](./../operations/processes.md) and [ownership](./../operations/ownership.md) for details.
- The Administrators for Plugins and Clusters need to be defined by the Organization Admins via `RoleBindings` for the seeded Roles `role:<org-name>:cluster-admin` and `role:<org-name>:plugin-admin`.
- All authenticated users are considered members of the Organization and are granted the `organization:<org-name>` Role.

The following roles are seeded for each Organization:

| Name                            | Description                                                | ApiGroups                 | Resources                                                                                            | Verbs                       | Cluster scoped |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------- | ---- |
| `role:<org-name>:admin`         | An admin of a Greenhouse `Organization`. This entails the permissions of `role:<org-name>:cluster-admin` and `role:<org-name>:plugin-admin`                    | `greenhouse.sap/v1alpha1` | \*                                                                                                   | \*                          | - |
|                                 |                                                            | `v1`                      | `secrets`                                                                                            | \*                          | - |
|                                 |                                                            | `""`                      | `pods`, `replicasets`, `deployments`, `statefulsets`, `daemonsets`, `cronjobs`, `jobs`, `configmaps` | `get`, `list`, `watch`      | - |
|                                 |                                                            | `monitoring.coreos.com`   | `alertmanagers`, `alertmanagerconfigs`                                                               | `get`, `list`, `watch`      | - |
| `role:<org-name>:cluster-admin` | An admin of Greenhouse `Clusters` within an `Organization` | `greenhouse.sap/v1alpha1` | `clusters`, `teamrolebindings`                                                                       | \*                          | - |
|                                 |                                                            | `v1`                      | `secrets`                                                                                            | `create`, `update`, `patch` | - |
| `role:<org-name>:plugin-admin`  | An admin of Greenhouse `Plugins` within an `Organization`  | `greenhouse.sap/v1alpha1` | `plugins`, `pluginpresets`, `catalogs`, `plugindefinitions`                                                                           | \*                          | - |
|                                 |                                                            | `v1`                      | `secrets`                                                                                            | `create`, `update`, `patch` | - |
| `organization:<org-name>`        | A member of a Greenhouse `Organization`                    | `greenhouse.sap/v1alpha1` | \*                                                                                                   | `get`, `list`, `watch`      | - |
| `organization:<org-name>`       | A member of a Greenhouse `Organization`                    | `greenhouse.sap/v1alpha1` | `organizations`, `clusterplugindefinitions`                                                                 | `get`, `list`, `watch`      | x |

## OIDC

Each Organization must specify the OIDC configuration for the Organization's IDP. This configuration is used together with [DEXIDP](https://dexidp.io/) to authenticate users in the Organization.

## SCIM

Each Organization can specify SCIM credentials which are used to syncronize users and groups from an Identity Provider. This makes it possible to view the members of a Team in the Greenhouse dashboard.

Commit message:

docs(core): rework of documentation
This PR aims to rework the documetation structure.
getting-started/core-concepts should not contain
technical details but give a brief overview.
How to configure the API resources should be shown
under reference/components. This is a more detailed
documentation and may contain some additional info
on how to use the API. Next to the generated api docs.
user-guides should only contain examples/tutorials
that guide the user to complete a specific task.

to make the navigation and finding related resources
easier the refactored docs pages will now have a
'Next steps' section at the bottom of the page

docs/getting-started/core-concepts/organizations.md, after:

---
title: "Organizations"
weight: 1
---

## What are Organizations?

Organizations are the top-level entities in Greenhouse. Each Organization gets a dedicated Namespace, that contains all resources bound to the Organization.
Greenhouse expects an Organization to provide it's own Identity Provider and currently supports _OIDC_ Identity Providers. Greenhouse also supports SCIM for syncing users and groups from an Identity Provider.

See [Creating an Organization](./../../../user-guides/organization/creation) for more details.

## Organization Namespace and Permissions

The Organization's Namespace in the Greenhouse cluster contains all resources bound to the Organization. This Namespace is automatically provisioned when a new Organization is created and shares the Organization's name.
Once the Namespace is created, Greenhouse will automatically seed RBAC [Roles](./../../../pkg/rbac/role.go) and [ClusterRoles](./../../../pkg/rbac/clusterrole.go) for the Organization. These are used to grant permissions for the Organization's resources to Teams.

- The Administrators of an Organization are specified via a identity provider (IDP) group during the creation of the Organization. Greenhouse automatically creates a Team called `<org-name>-admin`. This Team is also a [support group](teams.md#support-groups) and all alerts created by the Greenhouse controller are routed to this admin Team, if no other ownership is provided. See [operational processes](./../operations/processes.md) and [ownership](./../operations/ownership.md) for details.
- The Administrators for Plugins and Clusters need to be defined by the Organization Admins via `RoleBindings` for the seeded Roles `role:<org-name>:cluster-admin` and `role:<org-name>:plugin-admin`.
- All authenticated users are considered members of the Organization and are granted the `organization:<org-name>` Role.

See [Working with Organizations](./../../../reference/components/organization#role-based-access-control-within-the-organization-namespace) for details on the seeded Roles and ClusterRoles.

## OIDC

Each Organization must specify the OIDC configuration for the Organization's IDP. This configuration is used together with [DEXIDP](https://dexidp.io/) to authenticate users in the Organization.

## SCIM

Each Organization can specify SCIM credentials which are used to syncronize users and groups from an Identity Provider. This makes it possible to view the members of a Team in the Greenhouse dashboard.

## Next Steps

- [Creating an Organization](./../../../user-guides/organization/creation)
- [Organization reference](./../../reference/components/organization)
